Next.js quickstart proposal (#444)
clerkinc/clerk-docs: docs/references/nextjs/custom-signup-signin-pages.mdx

---

> title: "Create custom sign-in and sign-up pages for Next.js with Clerk"
> description: "Learn how to add custom sign-in and sign-up pages to your Next.js app with Clerk's prebuild components and custom flows."

Reviewer: frontmatter doesn't need quotations.
title should be same as the leading h1 (there is a ticket to automate/address this)

```suggestion
title: Build your own sign-in and sign-up pages for your Next.js App with Clerk
description: Learn how to add custom sign-in and sign-up pages to your Next.js app with Clerk's prebuilt components and custom flows.
```

Reviewer 2: With this content broken into its own section, this particular guide may fit better as a guide on moving from Account Portal to self-hosting components. Additions required for that would be:

- a /user or /profile page that mounts <UserProfile />
- disabling Account Portal
- if organizations are enabled for the application
- a /organization page that mounts <OrganizationProfile />
- a /create-organzation page that mounts <CreateOrganization />
- mounting <OrganizationSwitcher /> in the header inside the layout

This might be a bit much, but at the time once customers are moving to hosting their own /signin and /signup routes they are likely moving to this full solution anyway.

---

# Build your own sign-in and sign-up pages for your Next.js App with Clerk

Clerk offers a set of [prebuilt components](/docs/components/overview) and [custom flows](/docs/custom-flows/overview) that you can use to embed sign in, sign up, and other user management functions into your Next.js application. This is how you use the [`<SignIn />`](/docs/components/authentication/sign-in) and [`<SignUp />`](/docs/components/authentication/sign-up) components with the [Next.js optional catch-all route](https://nextjs.org/docs/pages/building-your-application/routing/dynamic-routes#catch-all-segments).

<Callout>
    Just getting started with Clerk and Next.js? Try our [quickstart](/docs/quickstarts/nextjs)!
</Callout>

<Steps>

> ### Build your sign-up page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Build your sign-up page

Create a new file that will be used to render the sign-up page. In the file, import the [`<SignUp />`](/docs/components/authentication/sign-up) component from Clerk and render it.
```

---
or we could write:

```suggestion
### Build your sign-up page

Create a new file that will be used to render the sign-up page. In the file, import the [`<SignUp />`](/docs/components/authentication/sign-up) component from `@clerk/nextjs` and render it.
```

<CodeBlockTabs options={["App Router", "Pages Router"]}>
  ```tsx filename="app/sign-up/[[...sign-up]]/page.tsx"
  import { SignUp } from "@clerk/nextjs";

  export default function Page() {
    return <SignUp />;
  }
  ```

  ```tsx filename="/pages/sign-up/[[...index]].tsx"
  import { SignUp } from "@clerk/nextjs";

  export default function Page() {
    return <SignUp />;
  }
  ```
</CodeBlockTabs>

> ### Build your sign-in page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Build your sign-in page

Create a new file that will be used to render the sign-in page. In the file, import the [`<Signin />`](/docs/components/authentication/sign-in)  component from Clerk and render it.
```

---
or we could write:

```suggestion
### Build your sign-in page

Create a new file that will be used to render the sign-in page. In the file, import the [`<SignIn />`](/docs/components/authentication/sign-up) component from `@clerk/nextjs` and render it.
```

</Callout>

### Update your environment variables

Next, add environment variables for the `signIn`, `signUp`, `afterSignUp`, and `afterSignIn` paths:

```sh filename=".env.local"
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_SIGN_IN_URL=/sign-in
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_SIGN_UP_URL=/sign-up
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_AFTER_SIGN_IN_URL=/
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_AFTER_SIGN_UP_URL=/
```

These values control the behavior of the components when you sign in or sign up and when you click on the respective links at the bottom of each component.

### Visit your new pages

Visit you new pages locally at [localhost:3000/sign-in](http://localhost:3000/sign-in) and [localhost:3000/sign-up](http://localhost:3000/sign-up) to see your custom pages.

</Steps>

# Next steps

<div className="container mx-auto my-4">
  <div className="grid grid-cols-1 gap-6 md:grid-cols-2">
    <Cards title="Customization & Localization" description="Learn how to customize and localize the Clerk components." link="/docs/components/customization/overview" cta="Learn More" />

>     <Cards title="Authentication Components" description="Learn more about all our authentication components." link="/docs/components/overview" cta="Learn More" />

Reviewer: let's change up this wording, something like

```suggestion
    <Cards title="Clerk Components" description="Learn more about Clerk's prebuilt components that make authentication and user management easy." link="/docs/components/overview" cta="Learn More" />
```
